So when it comes to testing
with those initial wireframes,
those grayscale wireframes
that we talked about.
I don't tend to bother testing with
those low fidelity gray scales,
the ones where you don't have real
copy in there and that kind of thing.
It just is not really kind of worth it in
my opinion, because there's not enough in
the interface for users to really
understand what they're looking at,
which is the same reason why I don't tend
to do testing with paper prototypes.
There's just not enough information
in there to make it worthwhile.
So I only test really with grayscale
wireframes, which you've got
real content in and navigational
elements and that kind of stuff.
If I've just got a wireframe that's
not particularly interactive, maybe
just individual screens or whatever, that
oftentimes I'll do a first click test.
So I show them the static comp.
And I say where would you
click to create a new task or
whatever it is that you want
people to do on the app?
And it records where they've clicked,
right?
So you can see whether people
are clicking in the right place.
First-click tests are great.
As I said earlier,
if people get their first click right,
then they've got a good chance of
successfully completing the task.
I tend to use listen for this test,
it's super easy to set up.
You're essentially just kind of uploading
an image, setting the task and away it
goes, and then it shows you whatever it
is that you're testing as an end user.
It says,
where would you click to sign up for
Frontend Masters in this particular case.
And then people click on the screen
wherever they would sign up and
then you get your results back and
you can see where people have been
clicking on the screen and whether
they've been clicking in the right place.
Great, we now know that people
know how to sign up for
Frontend Masters, and
that takes I know 5-10 minutes to set up.
And then if you send it out
using their recruitment tools,
you'll get results back in an hour.
Really lightweight, really quick.
The other one that I sometimes do
with wireframes is I do a five
second test which involves showing
the users a design for only five seconds.
I normally make it a bit longer.
I make it eight seconds because I do,
after which you ask people to
recall any specific details
they remember of the page and
what was going on and whether they
understood it and that kind of thing.
So, it helps you to know whether
they get what they're looking at and
they understand it pretty quickly.
So what you're looking to understand,
the kind of wireframing stage,
well, basically, did they get it?
Did they understand what the screen was
about and what you were trying to do?
Did they see particular elements,
if there's a top task or something,
you're worried that people
aren't likely to see this,
these kinds of tests will show you that.
And then what stood out the most, what
things are grabbing people's attention and
is it the right things.
And five second tests equally,
really simple to set up.
You upload your graphic,
you ask them to put in the question,
which is essentially what did you see?
It shows them a blank page
with the instructions and
then when they click on the button,
it shows them the design.
And five seconds later, they're asked to
then fill in what it was that they saw.
And what you get back at the end of that
is a word cloud like this, which has got
basically is saying all the things,
you know, all the words that people used.
So for example, this particular
example was a direct mail site.
So great, they've realized
it was a direct mail site.
I was a little bit worried about
the fact that it had the word something
written there, [LAUGH] which I
didn't feel was very encouraging.
But I could drill into the results and
see what people were saying.
And actually they were saying something to
do with direct mail or variations of that.
So it wasn't,
they were just going on, something.
[LAUGH] So I was fairly safe on that.
I mean, these days also you could
download the whole of that,
all those individual answers,
throw them into a large language model and
it would go through and tell you.
You could question it,
you could say, how many people said,
what percentage of people mentioned
direct mail, and what other things
other than direct mail do people
think it was, and that kind of thing.
So that's quite useful to be able
to just question it like that.
So that's why for instance that's
the main test I do on those,
I don't tend to do a lot of you
know usability testing in the in
the traditional sense because
it just takes too long.